all right what's up guys so i'm here
joined again by the wonderful xander and
uh
basically what we're gonna do today
obviously uh we just uploaded that video
where we did uh sort of a formulation
review of some of the items that i'd
made
over the past year and a half or so of
learning programming with space
repetition
and i thought it'd be a good idea today
to actually return to some of the items
specifically the items that we went over
at the end
and do some reformulation to actually
show the changes that we make
to the items and perhaps even the items
that we create
uh in addition to the ones that were
already shown to
sort of solidify the understanding and
improve some of the poor formulation
that was on display
in those items so yeah um
i think we can just jump straight into
the first one uh so this is the one
about the
early history of high-level programming
languages and
um basically uh
it's sort of i like this item because it
uh sort of ties into my understanding of
um
high level programming languages and how
they evolved over time but i think
zander you had
uh you know you made some good comments
about
uh how you know the things the
interesting things that i said about
this item and why i liked it
they weren't actually present in the
item itself um
[Music]
do you think some uh you know what
practical things can i do right now to
um
perhaps solidify my understanding what
changes could i make to this item
uh to improve it um yeah
so yeah i mean i it's funny because i've
thought about
these items zero times since we
discussed it so this is
truly this is truly just me thinking
yeah
and uh putting you on the spot i mean no
no no i
i like it i think this is good because
people need people
might get value from saying the fact
that i'm not
like i don't know this stuff instantly
it takes me a little bit of thinking but
anyway the first thing i would ask is
do you know what roughly what time
period is being referred to by early
history
in the early history of high-level
programming languages um
if i were to just throw dates out there
i'd say between
50s and 80s probably
uh actually yeah that's good that's a
good question what
i'm more thinking in my head of um
i'm thinking my head of like assembly
that would be like a low-level
programming language
and even back in the day that would have
been considered low level right
and so early history of high-level
programming languages i think the first
high level
or the first language that was then
considered to be high level
uh but now is considered to be low level
that would be c so that was the first
one
and indeed it's like in in c you only
really had functions you don't have
classes or anything like that
so i don't know it kind of slots in with
that i guess
okay so would it make would it imply the
same thing
to just say early high-level programming
languages
only abstracted data slash process would
that imply the same thing
yes exactly yeah okay so i would i would
initially rephrase it to that and then
we can do another refactor
from there so early high level
programming languages
only abstracted or
do you mind if i just put only included
uh
yeah that's that's fine whatever okay
nice
so we've so there we go yeah go ahead oh
sorry i was just going to say yeah like
uh
so one of the first reformulation sort
of patterns i guess
i guess it's so simple that it's not
even a pattern but it's just
it's well it's a combination of things
what we did was we simplified
the item by removing extraneous detail
and text we shortened it i suppose but
you also
[Music]
made it more clear what's being asked
about uh
i guess right exactly yeah so i like
that for multiple reasons one of them is
like i like to get the clothes as close
to the end
as possible so that you just naturally
read the whole thing
because otherwise what happens is you
sort of have to
if the closes are close to the beginning
you have to read the whole thing
and then come back to the thing and i
just i
don't know i tend to find those less
effective so
uh and then i would just remove that
comma there yeah and uh so there's
there's one thing the next question i
would ask is do you
so you already mentioned a couple so you
can think of some high-level programming
languages
where this would be true uh yeah so like
uh
well the main one that comes to my head
because it's the one that i have
experience with a tiny little bit of
experience with would be c
so that being basically the first
high-level programming language that
only uh contained process abstraction
so probably what i would do is make
another item and say
um what's an example of an early high
level programming language
that only included process abstraction
or something like that that's right or
you could say that did not include data
abstraction
or however you want to phrase it okay so
give an example of a
of an early uh
high level oh man you're gonna see my
terrible typing skills now
no no don't worry about it pal and if
you guys make fun of his typing speed
there's going to be problems all right
of an early high level programming
language
that only included
uh process abstract process abstraction
yeah okay
and then what i tend to do with given
example items
is i wrap the whole answer in
parentheses and then i do eg
and then just list them that way i'm
sort of signaling to myself
these are not the only ones but these
are just some answers
that fit the question does that make
sense could you uh
could you reformulate that yeah so just
open open parentheses close parentheses
and then in between there
i just do eg like example
and then the first one so c and then if
i had another one
i would do comma and then add another
item okay this way
if the next time i review this if i
think of another one or
if i go read some more and there's
another example i can add the example
there
and i'm also signaling signaling to
myself whatever i think of here
is not the definitive answer it's just
one
that fits the question so i like to use
that that answer
like example in the parentheses to
signal
that there's more to this there could be
a
much larger number of examples that fit
right but this is just the one that i
decided to include
yeah i like that because uh although it
might seem trivial
and it might seem that you would uh
remember that over time
uh but in my experience it's been the
case that
you you slowly forget uh sort of your uh
you slowly forget that sort of detail
over time so you forget that
uh there were multiple answers that you
could have given and so
if you do end up giving like if you gave
her an answer that was valid but wasn't
included in the answer you might fail it
uh when it was actually um you know a
valid answer
uh so even you know just that small
detail it
it is important and yeah i definitely
agree with that
um right yeah one of the things i'm
wondering
about is like whether i should like
something i sometimes do is like
use the highlight thing so it just makes
it clear to me like
if i add another item that's like give
an example
of a programming language that only
included data abstraction for example
sometimes i find that even though you
know the words are different
i get some um interference between them
and sometimes if i'm going through my
items fast
and i'm not paying attention i i like
mix the two up
if you know what i mean i like process
and data get scrambled in my head and i
just answer
reflexively um uh
you know i i just for example i'd see
this item and i'd answer reflexively
as if this was data rather than process
right
so i find that like just by highlighting
this word it
usually clears that up like that usually
helps
yeah personally i'm not a fan of that um
because
i view it like giving myself a hint so
okay
i personally don't like that but if that
works for you
honestly there's probably no issue with
it like maybe
maybe it makes it slightly easier to
answer but yeah there's probably no
issue with it and if and if it helps you
a lot and you know that it helps you
that's probably fine okay okay all right
yeah i'll stick with it let's uh let's
go into the next one
all right yeah so this one
concerns uh iterators and
again it's sort of asking about
abstraction i think
in the formulation review one of the
things i mentioned that i thought
was that i thought the uh the answer was
a little bit long
um so do you have any like suggestions
for how i could shorten it
um yeah i mean there's definitely ways
to to
rephrase it just initially what i think
is you could say
allows traversal of every element of a
container so
you could instantly remove a few of the
few of the words
nice uh well i mean probably
probably leave the end part until we
think of something better
but then is that like one of those
reference markers
at the end there yeah yeah from
wikipedia yeah okay
yeah um i guess i could get rid of that
so
yeah i mean that part doesn't matter i
tend to get rid of things like that but
it doesn't actually matter at all
um okay let's try to think about this
some more oh you
oh sorry i don't want to interrupt you
if you're no no go ahead
i was going to say uh one of the things
um
i'm struggling to remember exactly what
you said but you said something really
interesting
uh about how i'd phrase phrase this like
i said what is the value of an iterator
in terms of
abstraction uh it's like
i wish everyone what exactly you said
because it's really good um
i wish i remembered what i said as well
uh something like
using the word value here was kind of um
almost misleading you because it's more
like
what does a va what does an iterator
allow you to do rather than
um it's not it isn't yeah it's asking
you about like the function
or like what an iterator allows you to
do rather than
what's its value uh right so maybe uh
right yeah changing it to like um
what does the iterator allow you to do
or something like that what does the
abstraction
of an iteration allow you to do or
something i don't know
yeah or you could you could move the
word abstract to the beginning so you
could say
abstractly what okay what is the value
of an iterator or what does an
iterator allow you to do because
technically that's true i mean
this is just sort of describing
describing the the abstract
like nature of it the benefits probably
if i ask you
what's the benefit of being able to do
that then you might you might be able to
articulate some example
well also you have this thing and you
want to do this but then you also want
to do this and this and you want to be
able to take different data
and all this stuff so different data and
not do all this all these related things
without knowing and
whatever you'd give some example right
so i don't know
probably in this case i i would do i
would move abstract to the beginning
okay and just say what is the value of
an iterator so abstractly
uh what is the value of an iterator
right and then
you could just remove the yep so that's
a little bit simpler and then whenever i
make a close like that i just remove the
marker from the question but that's
personal preference um
and then let's see if we can rephrase
the answer even more
so
with saying um every
allows traversal of a container a
container implies that there's elements
within right
so maybe you don't even have to say of
every element
very good point last traversal of a
container without knowing its internal
structure
yeah that's much more terse i like it
right
oh i've got to go oh sorry i've got a
question
oh perhaps you should go first if you're
still talking about this item mine's
more like
no no go ahead go ahead okay sure yeah
um
i was going to ask like after you
reformulate an item
do you think it's a good idea to like
reschedule it
to reset it and uh get the benefits of
like i think that actually might have
reset
never mind but yeah do you think that's
a good idea
to do that no no i i almost never do
that unless i've actually changed
what the what the thing is asking okay
but if i've just
changed the the wording but it's
conceptually asking the same thing
i just let the algorithm continue how it
would have
okay okay so um
sorry did you mention like what
circumstances under which you would
uh research it like yeah like i said
yeah if you change the concept that's
being asked okay
but it's still the same item then it
makes sense to forget that because
essentially it's a new item except you
you didn't tell the program that
okay okay that's worth doing but this is
actually about the same concept
it's just phrased in a different way
okay so
i i think it's fine i wouldn't reset it
in this case i almost never
reset it because it's a very rare
circumstance where you
edit an item to such a degree that it's
actually asking something totally
different
okay okay so as long as these semantics
are the same
uh if you just change like syntactical
things like
the specific words or whatever or the
grammar then you shouldn't reschedule
yeah i mean at least i don't and then
there's probably some extreme case
where you've changed the semantics or
the syntactics
sufficiently did i is that the right
word syntax
syntactics i don't know whatever you
change this efficiently
yeah it probably is syntax but anyway
you've changed it you've changed the
wording enough even though the semantics
are the same
and there's probably a degree of that
where where you would still need to
reset the item or it would be beneficial
to do it
to do that but i just almost never do it
indeed look it's added it to the pending
key now
i've got it oh my god all right so
i have screwed this up i will set the
how about this i'll set the
interval um to like 50 days right
because i've already done a bunch of
repetitions so this will yeah you could
you could probably remember this for 200
days
200 i don't know i almost i almost
want to see this again though because
it's like a a nice idea
you know that's uh all right well yeah
just put it whenever you want okay maybe
30 days whatever all right all right
maybe i'll go for 30.
all right there we go
what beautiful ridiculous thing why did
it go to the pending queue
that's outrageous
oh okay that's a final item
it's the uh computer science analogy and
it's talking about dna
it's trying to make an analogy between
uh
the messenger rna transfer rna and
ribosomes or whatever in the dna
uh making analogy between that and a
programming language's
interpreter
yeah i think this one so what's the
actual
what's the thing that's being analogized
i'm i'm confused
um actually yeah
what was interesting to me uh i didn't
think it's very easy to explain because
it's like one of those items where
i think the interesting part might be in
my head and not in the item
um so let me try and
articulate why it was interesting so uh
instructions for building the dna's
interpreto
right okay yeah what was interesting to
me was that
the dna is like a programming language
right
but it also uh it also encodes its own
interpreter
because the messenger rna and whatever
they're created from the
dna i think
so basically you're trying to
encapsulate that rna and ribosomes
are equivalent to an interpreter the dna
and they're encoded they're encoded with
the dna itself
yeah yeah so it's like the dna is a
programming language but it also
like it's a programming language that
writes its own interpreter
and so then that interpreter interprets
the dna itself so it's like this
there's like this self-referential
aspect to it that was
interesting to me um right so
yeah there's a lot of things going on
with this and probably
the closest if we had to identify
what this item is actually asking about
it's essentially trying to say
in the language of computer science uh
rna and ribosomes are the dna's
interpreter right that's essentially
what it's asking yeah yeah so i would
probably rephrase it to that and then
you could make some supplemental items
like um you know what what
might be some elements of dna that
that you know are instructions for
building it or however you want to
phrase it i don't know that much about
dna
oh nice yeah no i think that's really
good could you could you give me that
first one again it was like
in the language of computer science yeah
in the language of computer science
ribosomes and rna can be viewed as
instructions for for building the dna's
blank
or whatever oh no
it's ridiculous
okay in the language of cs um
you're right ribosomes and rna
uh can can be viewed as instructions for
building the dnas
i gotta learn more about dna man yeah i
don't know all that much about dna it's
like
i just some geneticist is gonna tell us
no you guys are idiots this is totally
not right at all
some geneticist who also has a computer
science degree look we have this
is also a phd mathematician like the
problem is that we've just ascended to a
level of abstraction
at which this item makes sense so you
know it's their problem not
not us that's right and if you don't
understand this
look how are you going to blame us for
that it's not our fault that you're not
sufficiently educated all right
uh as
okay
wait hold on that doesn't make sense
yeah sorry
i'm really struggling to uh
just control z control z a couple of
times okay okay until i see a double
time
okay there we go right isn't that right
and then just remove the end part
okay rna can be considered as uh
i don't think so i think um oh so it's
as dna's yeah blank is that what it is
they can be considered uh the dna's yeah
interpreter
right so just remove as instructions for
building
then or you can even change considered
to viewed or whatever makes the most
sense to you and then just remove that
end part everything after the quote yeah
yeah
viewed as better
okay as the dna's tucked her
beautiful right and as for the rest of
those items i will
listen back to this or watch it uh back
again because
i think for people to watch me try to
type
[Laughter]
i think that's it i'll just make one
more note about this item if you wanted
to
what you could do is just basically
get rid of the beginning part so it's
just ribosomes and rna and then
you could do a hint in the close and say
like cs term
or whatever that way you still get the
still get the benefit but it's a little
bit shorter
beautiful look at look at how much text
we removed there look how clear
the question is uh i'm thinking about
the effects love it
think about the effects on the memory
consolidation think about all of the
beautiful serendipitous creative
associations are going to be making now
that's right
and think of how much time you're going
to save when you review this item
you don't have to read all those words
think about how jealous that uh
mathematician phd cs phd and
biology can be i see all the amazing
ideas that i'm coming up with
that's right you may have all those phds
you may be supremely well educated
but you don't have this good item so
joke's on you pal
all right and with that i think uh we'll
call it a video
um i really hope you enjoyed this one
and thank you again to xander for
joining me
uh this was super fun man yeah it was
this was way more fun than i thought
it'd be and i hope it's uh
yeah let us know in the comments and
we'll be happy to make more of these in
the future
definitely all right thanks guys
see ya